Rather than talk about using WebDriver,
we're going to dive right in and begin using it and explain it as we go.
I've gone ahead and opened up IntelliJ.
That's the IDE that I'm using as we get a lot of corporate requests for that,
but the instructions are almost exactly the same for Eclipse or Spring STS.
I'm going to click Create New Project.
I'm going to choose Java 11 for the SDK and Maven for the
project type that I want to create.
Click Next.
And I'm going to expand our artifact coordinates.
Change this to com.pluralsight.
And the name, I'm going to call this WebDriverDemo.
So all of our settings should be a GroupId of com.pluralsight,
ArtifactId of WebDriverDemo, and the version is 1.0‑SNAPSHOT.
If this is a little foreign to you, don't worry about it.
We're not going to get very deep into the nuances of Maven,
but this will set up our project and get it running for us.
Let's click Finish, and that will bring up our project like this.
There's a couple things I'm going to show you in here really quick.
I am going to enable auto import of dependencies that we add to our application,
and I'm going to give us more real estate to look at the XML.
But you already have a basic project structure set up inside of here,
src, main, java, src, test, java, and our POM file,
and that's everything we need to get started in our application.
There are three changes we want to make to our Maven POM file,
and I'm going to go below that closing version tag
and before the closing project tag.
And the first thing I'm going to add is a property section
with a maven.compiler.release property,
and that's going to be set to 1.11 and that's because
that's the JDK I have installed is 1.11.
If you're using something different,
you'll want to put the appropriate release inside of there.
Let me save that.
Below that properties element, we want to add a dependency section.
And I'm going to just paste this in here because you likely
don't want to watch me type this all in,
but I'll walk through what the pieces are here.
So we have a dependencies element, and inside of that,
we have a dependency element.
And then the attributes for that are a groupId of org.seleniumhq.selenium,
an artifact of selenium‑java, and the version of 4.0.0‑beta‑4.
Now, as of the recording of this course,
4.0.0‑beta‑4 is the current release of this.
All the features we're using have been standardized
for a long time inside of there,
so there's really not any risks associated with that.
I will update the course to a non‑beta when it is published and live.
And then the last piece we want to add is below the dependencies element.
We want to add a build section that contains the plugins and plugin element.
And the particular plugin that we're going to add has a groupId of
org.apache.maven.plugins and an artifact of maven‑compiler‑plugin.
The specific version is 3.8.1,
and that actually takes advantage of that property that we
first added of maven.compiler.release 1.11.
So those two work in conjunction with one another,
and all that does is it says the source code we want to
compile to Java 11 and run as Java 11 both.
And the dependencies we're downloading are the Java
Selenium dependency 4.0.0‑beta‑4.
When we save this, if you enable those auto imports,
it'll go through and automatically download those all for you.
Now that we have all of that done,
let's start writing some Java code, and we do that by right‑clicking on src,
main, java and say New, Java Class.
And for the class name, we're going to say com.pluralsight.WebDriverDemo.
Click Enter, and that'll create this class for us.
And to that, let's add a public static void main,
and this will give us the basic structure for our first test.
Now I will tell you we're going to set this up,
and it's going to fail the first time we run this,
and we'll fix that.
But it's going to fail the very first time that we run this test.
Inside that main method,
let's add a WebDriver driver = new ChromeDriver and say driver.get.
For the URL, say http://www.pluralsight.com and save this.
And right‑click on this and run that as an application.
So we'll say Run WebDriverDemo.main.
This will pop up and run, and you'll see that it has an error.
It says that the path to the driver executable,
the path to the driver, excuse me,
must be set by the webdriver.chrome.driver system property.
So this is a little error that you're going to get the first time you run this.
We'll show you a couple of different ways to fix this.
If you scroll clear over to the end of the message,
you can see that it tells you to download the latest version of
this driver that it's saying must be installed.
Let's pull up that page now and take a look at it and see what it says.
Clicking on that link in our error log,
it'll bring you to this site for downloading the appropriate driver.
You can check which version of the browser you're using by
going to the About section underneath the File menu to see
which version you're currently running.
I'm running 92, so I'm going to click on that link there,
and it will take me to this download page.
And I'm using a Mac,
so I'm going to grab the mac64.zip version. And I've already downloaded that.
Choose the appropriate one for your machine and grab that.
And then let's unzip that in your project structure.
The easiest way for us to get our test up and running is to
actually download that zip file to the root of the workspace we
just created. So underneath our WebDriverDemo,
right alongside our pom.xml file and our src and target folders,
I'm just going to extract it to right here. And you'll see
that it drops an executable in there.
Now depending on your platform, when we go to run our test again,
you may have to give this permission.
So it's different for every platform. You should be familiar with that.
It's kind of outside of the scope of this course.
You may have to go grant it for this exe to execute. So in your system
preferences and security on a Mac or in your Windows machine,
the dialog will pop up where you grant it permissions,
but you may have to do that.
So keep an eye out for that dialog.
Let's switch back over to our editor.
Now with that zip file at the root of our project,
we can try and run this again.
Now if you don't have that at the root of your project,
it's not going to find it.
So let's try and run it, and it will go through and launch our
application, and it should pull up a browser window for us.
And sure enough, it did.
You should be seeing something very similar to this where it
opened up the pluralsight.com website to where we can start writing a test against this.